## HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION

These highlights do not include all the information needed to use POTASSIUM PHOSPHATES INJECTION safely and effectively. See full prescribing information for POTASSIUM PHOSPHATES INJECTION.

## -INDICATIONS AND USAGE

Potassium phosphates injection is a phosphorus replacement product indicated as a source of phosphorus:

- in intravenous fluids to correct hypophosphatemia in adults and pediatric patients when oral or enteral replacement is not possible, insufficient or contraindicated. (1)

• for parenteral nutrition in adults and pediatric patients when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible, insufficient or contraindicated. (1)

DO SAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Potassium phosphates injection provides phosphorus 3 mmol/mL (potassium 4.4 mEq/mL). (2.2, 2.4)

Monitor serum phosphorus, potassium, calcium, and magnesium concentrations. (2.2, 2.4)

• See full prescribing information for instructions on preparation and administration. (2.1, 2.3)

Recommended Dosage for Correction of Hypophosphatemia in Intravenous Fluids

- Potassium phosphates injection is only for administration to a patient with a serum potassium concentration less than 4 mEq/dL; otherwise, use an alternative source of phosphorus. (2.1)

The dosage is dependent upon the individual needs of the patient, and the contribution of phosphorus and potassium from other sources. (2.2)

See full prescribing information for recommendations on initial or single dosing, repeated

- See full prescribing information for recommendations on initial or single dosing, repeated dosing, concentration and infusion rate. (2.1, 2.2)

- Individualize the dosage based upon the patient's clinical condition, nutritional requirements, and the contribution of oral or enteral phosphorus and potassium intake. (2.4)

• See full prescribing information for recommendations for daily and maximum dosage. (2.4)

DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

- phosphorus 150 mmol/50 mL (3 mmol/mL) and potassium 220 mEq/50 mL (4.4 mEq/mL) as a Pharmacy Bulk Package vial.



CONTRAINDICATIONS

hyperphosphatemia (4)

severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73m $ ^{2} $) or end stage renal WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

Serious Cardiac Adverse Reactions with Undiluted, Bolus, or Rapid Intravenous Administration: Administer only after dilution or admixing; do not exceed the recommended infusion rate. Continuous electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring may be needed during infusion. (2.2, 5.1)

Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates: If signs of pulmonary distress occur, stop the infusion and initiate a medical evaluation. (52)

- Hyperkalemia: Increased risk in patients with renal impairment, severe adrenal insufficiency, or treated with drugs that increase potassium. Patients with cardiac disease may be more susceptible. Do not exceed the maximum daily amount of potassium or the recommended infusion rate. Continuous ECG monitoring may be needed during infusion. (5.3, 7.1)

- Hyperphosphatemia and Hypocalcemia: Monitor serum phosphorus and calcium concentrations during and following infusion. (5.4)

- phosphorus 15 mmol/5 mL (3 mmol/mL) and potassium 22 mEq/5 mL (4.4 mEq/mL) in a single-dose vial. (3)

- Hypomagnesemia: Reported in patients with hypercalcemia and diabetic ketoacidosis. Monitor serum magnesium concentrations during treatment. (5.6)



• Vein Damage and Thrombosis: Infuse concentrated or hypertonic solutions through a central catheter. (2.1, 2.3, 5.7)

## Injection:

## -ADVERSE REACTIONS

Adverse reactions include hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Caplin Steriles Limited at 1-866-978-6111 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.

phosphorus 45 mmol/15 mL (3 mmol/mL) and potassium 66 mEq/15 mL (4.4 mEq/mL) in a single-dose vial. (3)

Use of Other Medications that Increase Potassium: Avoid use in patients receiving such products. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations. (5.3, 7.1)



See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION.

## FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION: CONTENTS $ ^{*} $

## 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

2.1 Preparation and Administration in Intravenous

2.2 Dosage for Administration in Intravenous Fluids

2.3 Preparation and Administration in Parenteral Nutrition

Revised: 01/2025

2.4 Dosage for Administration in Parenteral Nutrition

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

## 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

5.2 Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates

5.3 Hyperkalemia

5.4 Hyperphosphatemia and Hypocalcemia

## FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION

## 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE

Potassium phosphates injection is indicated as a source of phosphorus:

- in intravenous fluids to correct hypophosphatemia in adults and pediatric patients when oral or enteral replacement is not possible, insufficient or contraindicated.

- for parenteral nutrition in adults and pediatric patients when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible, insufficient or contraindicated.

2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

2.1 Preparation and Administration in Intravenous Fluids to Correct Hypophosphatemia

## Preparation

Potassium phosphates injection is for intravenous infusion into a central or peripheral vein only after dilution.

- Using aseptic technique, withdraw the required amount from the vial and add to 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (normal saline) or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP (D5W). For adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older a total volume of 100 mL or 250 mL is recommended. For pediatric patients less than 12 years of age, use the smallest recommended volume, considering daily fluid requirements and the maximum concentration for peripheral and central administration shown in Table 1.

- The concentration of the diluted solution should take into consideration the age of the patient, the amounts of phosphorus and potassium in the dose, and is dependent upon whether administration will be through a peripheral or central venous catheter. The recommended maximum concentrations are shown in Table 1:

TABLE 1: Maximum Recommended Concentration of Potassium phosphates injection by Age and Route of Administration (Peripheral vs. Central)


<table border=1 style='margin: auto; word-wrap: break-word;'><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Patient Population</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Peripheral Venous Catheter</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Central Venous Catheter</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Adults and Pediatric Patients\n12 Years of Age and Older</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>phosphorus 6.8 mmol/100 mL\n(potassium 10 mEq/100 mL)</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>phosphorus 18 mmol/100 mL\n(potassium 26.4 mEq/100 mL)</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Pediatric Patients Less than 12 Years of Age</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>phosphorus 0.27 mmol/10 mL\n(potassium 0.4 mEq/10 mL)</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>phosphorus 0.55 mmol/10 mL\n(potassium 0.8 mEq/10 mL)</td></tr></table>

Visually inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration before and after dilution and prior to administration. Do not administer unless solution is clear, and seal on the vial is intact.

## Administration

- Check serum potassium and calcium concentrations prior to administration. Normalize the calcium before administering Potassium phosphates injection [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.4)].

- Potassium phosphates injection is only for administration to a patient with a serum potassium concentration less than 4 mEq/dL [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. If the potassium concentration is 4 mEq/dL or more, use an alternative source of phosphorus.

Do not infuse with calcium-containing intravenous fluids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)].

- The rate of administration may be dependent on the patient and the specific institution policy [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)].

## Storage and Stability

Single-Dose Vial (5 mL and 15 mL)

For single use only. Discard used vial, including any unused contents.

Penetrate vial closure only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents.

○ Use Potassium phosphates injection promptly once the sterile transfer set has been inserted into the Pharmacy Bulk Package vial or a maximum of 4 hours at room temperature  $ 20^{\circ} $C to  $ 25^{\circ} $C ( $ 68^{\circ} $F to  $ 77^{\circ} $F) ( $ 25^{\circ} $C to  $ 77^{\circ} $F) after the container closure has been penetrated. Discard any remaining drug.

After dilution, the solution is stable for a maximum of 4 hours at room temperature  $ 20^{\circ} $C to  $ 25^{\circ} $C ( $ 68^{\circ} $F to  $ 77^{\circ} $F) or 14 days under refrigeration at  $ 2^{\circ} $C to  $ 8^{\circ} $C ( $ 36^{\circ} $F to  $ 46^{\circ} $F).

### 2.2 Dosage for Administration in Intravenous Fluids to Correct Hypophosphatemia

The dosage is dependent upon the individual needs of the patient, and the contribution of phosphorus and potassium from other sources.

The phosphorus doses in Table 2 are general recommendations for an initial or single dose and are intended for most patients. Based upon clinical requirements, some patients may require a lower or higher dose. The maximum initial or single dose of phosphorus is 45 mmol (potassium 66 mEq) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].

 $ \underline{\text{Initial or Single Dose}} $

In patients with moderate renal impairment (eGFR ≥30 mL/min/1.73 m² to <60 mL/min/1.73 m²), start at the low end of the dose range [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)].

Monitor serum phosphorus, potassium, calcium and magnesium serum concentrations.

TABLE 2: Recommended Initial or Single Dose of Potassium phosphates injection in Intravenous Fluids to Correct Hypophosphatemia in Adults and Pediatric Patients


<table border=1 style='margin: auto; word-wrap: break-word;'><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Serum Phosphorus Concentration $ ^{{a}} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Phosphorus Dosage $ ^{{b,c}} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Corresponding Potassium Content</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>1.8 mg/dL to lower end of the reference range $ ^{{a}} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.16 mmol/kg to 0.31 mmol/kg</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>potassium 0.23 mEq/kg to 0.46 mEq/kg</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>1 mg/dL to 1.7 mg/dL</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.32 mmol/kg to 0.43 mmol/kg</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>potassium 0.47 mEq/kg to 0.63 mEq/kg</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Less than 1 mg/dL</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.44 mmol/kg to 0.64 mmol/kg $ ^{{c}} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>potassium 0.64 mEq/kg to 0.94 mEq/kg</td></tr></table>

 $ ^{a} $ Serum phosphorus reported using 2.5 mg/dL as the lower end of the reference range for healthy adults and pediatric patients 12 months of age and older. Serum phosphorus reported using 4 mg/dL as the lower end of the reference range for preterm and term infants less than 12 months of age. Serum phosphorus concentrations may vary depending on the assay used and the laboratory reference range.

 $ ^{b} $ Weight is in terms of actual body weight. Limited information is available regarding dosing of patients significantly above ideal body weight; consider using an adjusted body weight for these patients.

 $ ^{c} $ up to a maximum of phosphorus 45 mmol (potassium 66 mEq) as a single dose.

Concentration and Intravenous Infusion Rate

The concentration of the diluted solution [see Table 1, Dosage and Administration (2.1)] and the infusion rate is dependent upon whether administration will be through a peripheral or central venous catheter. The maximum recommended infusion rates are shown in Table 3 for adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older.


<table border=1 style='margin: auto; word-wrap: break-word;'><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Route of Administration</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Maximum Infusion Rate</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Peripheral Venous Catheter</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>phosphorus 6.8 mmol/hour\n(potassium 10 mEq/hour)</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Central Venous Catheter</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>phosphorus 15 mmol/hour\n(potassium 22 mEq/hour)</td></tr></table>

TABLE 3: Maximum Recommended Infusion Rate of Potassium phosphates injection for Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years of Age and Older


<table border=1 style='margin: auto; word-wrap: break-word;'><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'></td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>5.6 Hypomagnesemia\n5.7 Vein Damage and Thrombosis\n5.8 Laboratory Monitoring</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>6 ADVERSE REACTIONS\n7 DRUG INTERACTIONS\n7.1 Other Products that Increase Serum Potassium</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>8 USES IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS\n8.1 Pregnancy\n8.2 Lactation\n8.4 Pediatric Use\n8.5 Geriatric Use\n8.6 Renal Impairment</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>10</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>OVERDOSAGE</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'></td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>11 DESCRIPTION</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>12</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>12.1 Mechanism of Action\n12.3 Pharmacokinetics</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>17</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'></td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'></td></tr></table>

##  $ ^{*} $ Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed

Continuous electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring and infusion through a central venous catheter is recommended for infusion rates higher than:

Potassium 10 mEq/hour for adults and pediatric patients weighing 20 kg or greater

• Potassium 0.5 mEq/kg/hour for pediatric patients weighing less than 20 kg

## Repeated Dosing

2.3 Preparation and Administration in Parenteral Nutrition

Potassium phosphates injection is for intravenous infusion into a peripheral or central vein only after dilution and admixing.

Potassium phosphates injection is to be prepared only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood (or an equivalent clean air compounding area). The key factor in the preparation is careful aseptic technique to avoid inadvertent touch contamination during mixing of solutions and addition of other nutrients.

• Transfer the required amount of Potassium phosphates injection to the parenteral nutrition solution following the admixture of amino acids, dextrose, electrolytes solutions, and prior to lipids (if added).

Because additives may be incompatible, evaluate all additions to the parenteral nutrition container for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation.

- Calcium and phosphate ratios must be considered. Excess addition of calcium and phosphate, especially in the form of mineral salts, may result in the formation of calcium-phosphate precipitates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Calcium-phosphate stability in parenteral nutrition solutions is dependent upon the pH of the solution, temperature, and relative concentration of each ion. Discard if any precipitates are observed.

- Inspect the final parenteral solution containing Potassium phosphates injection to ensure that:

the emulsion has not separated, if lipids have been added. Separation of the emulsion can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the admixed emulsion.

- The final parenteral nutrition solution is for intravenous infusion into a peripheral or central vein. The choice of a peripheral or central venous route should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate. Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsm/L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)].

## Storage

- Protect the parenteral nutrition solution from light during storage.

##  $ \underline{\text{Stability}} $

Single-Dose Vial (5 mL and 15 mL)

For single use only. Discard used vial, including any unused contents.

Penetrate vial closure only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents.

O Use Potassium phosphates injection for admixing promptly once the sterile transfer set has been inserted into the Pharmacy Bulk Package vial or a maximum of 4 hours at room temperature  $ 20^{\circ} $C to  $ 25^{\circ} $C ( $ 68^{\circ} $F to  $ 77^{\circ} $F) ( $ 25^{\circ} $C to  $ 77^{\circ} $F) after the container closure has been penetrated. Discard any remaining drug.

Use parenteral nutrition solution containing Potassium phosphates injection promptly after mixing. Any storage of the admixture should be under refrigeration from  $ 2^{\circ} $C to  $ 8^{\circ} $C ( $ 36^{\circ} $F to  $ 46^{\circ} $F) and limited to a brief period of time, no longer than 24 hours. After removal from refrigeration, bring to room temperature and use promptly and complete the infusion within 24 hours. Discard any remaining admixture.

### 2.4 Dosage for Administration in Parenteral Nutrition

Potassium phosphates injection provides phosphorus 3 mmol/mL (potassium 4.4 mEq/mL).

TABLE 4: Recommended Daily Dosage of Potassium phosphates injection for Parenteral Nutrition for Adults and Pediatric Patients


<table border=1 style='margin: auto; word-wrap: break-word;'><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Patient Population</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Generally Recommended Phosphorus Daily Dosage (Potassium Content)</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Preterm and Term Infants\nLess than 12 Months</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>2 mmol/kg/day\n(potassium 2.9 mEq/kg/day)</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Pediatric Patients\n1 year to Less Than 12 years</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>1 mmol/kg/day; up to 40 mmol/day (potassium 1.5 mEq/kg/day; up to 58.7 mEq/day)</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Adults and Pediatric Patients\n12 Years of Age and Older</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>20 mmol/day to 40 mmol/day $ ^{{a}} $\n(potassium 29.3 mEq/day to 58.7 mEq/day)</td></tr></table>

 $ ^{a} $ In patients with moderate renal impairment (eGFR  $ \geq $30 mL/min/1.73 m $ ^{2} $ to <60 mL/min/1.73 m $ ^{2} $), start at the low end of the dosage range.

##  $ \underline{\text{Monitoring}} $

Monitor serum phosphorus, potassium, calcium and magnesium concentrations and adjust the dosage accordingly.

## 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Potassium phosphates injection, USP is a clear and colorless solution supplied as:

phosphorus 15 mmol/5 mL (3 mmol/mL) and potassium 22 mEq/5 mL (4.4 mEq/mL) in a single-dose vial.

phosphorus 45 mmol/15 mL (3 mmol/mL) and potassium 66 mEq/15 mL (4.4 mEq/mL) in a single-dose vial

- phosphorus 150 mmol/50 mL (3 mmol/mL) and potassium 220 mEq/50 mL (4.4 mEq/mL) in Pharmacy Bulk Package vial.

## 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS

Potassium phosphates injection is contraindicated in patients with

hyperkalemia [see Warning and Precautions (5.3)]

severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73m²) or end stage renal disease [see Warning and Precautions (5.3)]

hyperphosphatemia [see Warning and Precautions (5.4)]

hypercalcemia or significant hypocalcemia [see Warning and Precautions (5.4)]

5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

5.1 Serious Cardiac Adverse Reactions with Undiluted, Bolus or Rapid Intravenous Administration

Intravenous administration of potassium phosphates to correct hypophosphatemia in single doses of phosphorus 50 mmol and greater and/or at rapid infusion rates (over 1 to 3 hours) in intravenous fluids has resulted in death, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmia (including QT prolongation), hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, and seizures [see Overdosage (10)]. In addition, inappropriate intravenous administration of undiluted or insufficiently diluted potassium phosphates as a rapid “IV push” has resulted in cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, hypotension, and death.